README.md, before:

# Power Analyze #

We analyze the power traces (in CSV) of systems and run it through
an SVM, e1071. Our goal is to get the SVM to correctly identify as many
traces as possible given the mean of the trace.

Created by David Tran (unsignedzero)

# TO DO #

# Notes #

* : has greater precedence than - so [20:40-20] = [(20:40)-20]

# Questions #

* sapply seems to name your vectors for you?

# Version/Changelog #

* Optimized leave-one-out (LOO) parameters to get the best results.

## 0.9.0.0 [2014-02-26] #
* Bugfix: Typos fixed with one of the front files.
* Leave one out, as known as n-folds, where n is the size of the training set,
  is implemented. Summary output printed too.
* Separated report and poster content.
* Added background and more to objective.
* Updated .gitignore to ignore the man directory, generated from make gen-doc.
* Updated report for additional content used in poster.
* Bugfix: NaNs in output affecting averages.
* Report in a final state.
* Slowly updating the report and poster.
* Added more sections to report.
* Bugfix: Tests working now.
* Added comments of main parts of powerAnalyze.
* Bugfix: Graphics dep issues erroring in DESCRIPTION fixed.
* Report updated.
* Bugfix: powerAnalyze.r links to old file locations, pre-R package.
* Converted date to be ISO format.
* Updated README to reflect new tag.
* Changed test to tests
* Adding NAMESPACE file.

## 0.8.0.0 [2014-02-18] #
* Slowly converting repo files to be like an R package.
* Bugfix: lib calls assume the library is at a fixed location which isn't true.
* Roxygen2 setup working.
* Testing generation of docs using roxygen2.
* Report updated to include current experiment log.
* SVM now prints average values of recall and precision.
* Updated library to have a dot product function.
* Not tested in roxygen but merging for updated comments and fixes.
* Fixed typo in test with list v vector comparison.
* Documentation of powerAnalyze finished.
* Documentation of svm finished.
* Documentation for first two functions of svm created.
* Documentation of library created. Testing with doxygen2 now.
* Updated REPORT.md to reflect new changes made since first write.
* Updated library.r comments.
* Heatmap output generated from svm file.

## 0.7.0.0 [2014-02-16] #
* Tuned SVM for better results.
* The three 'main' r files that run the library are moved into front/
* Moved sort call from svmMain to svmFormatData to make it easier for
  external calls.
* libCall suppresses warnings to make the check work.
* Unit tested completed for svm and thus the core parts of this code base.
* Updated to do for test branch. Merging with development.
* Elements from the list output of svmFormatData can be accessed by name.
* Unit test checks if dataset exists before starting.
* Added object.check to check if an object(variable) is assigned.
* Created unit tests for powerAnalyze.r
* Created unit testing for library file.
* Created simple test harness for code base with one test. Run with make
  test-repo.
* New functions added to install a library if its not installed and then
  load it.
* Bugfix: Body removed the first (n-1) elements, not n.
* Sort function created for data frames in library.
* Code base can now take in a processed and labeled csv and run svm on it.

## 0.6.0.0 [2014-02-11] #
* Merging FFT into Development Branch.
* Tested Re, Im and mag to see which one has the best results.
* FFT and not-FFT (normal) versions can be executed separately.
* FFT initial base working.
* Adding space around = if not a keyword assign.
* Bugfix: Precision and recall corrected.
* Bugfix: Missing comma in printf.
* Report first draft created.
* Bugfix: Mistaking precision for call and vice-versa.
* Added more debugging and renamed a variable.
* Bugfix: Input data frame to SVM needs to be sorted.
* Bugfix: calib is labeled B and not C.
* No need for pipes with R.
* Added more base cases. Accuracy increased.

## 0.5.0.0 [2014-02-04] #
* SVM Module now spits out the parameters of interest from the confusion
  matrix.
* Error messages will display the function name as well for debugging purposes.
* Created simplified SVM constructor function.
* Renamed for variables for consistency.
* Using hex for the table.
* body returns the empty container rather than just NULL.
* Pulled SVM tuner coder into a function.
* Fixed some bad comments.
* Bugfix: SVM now uses the column passed in as, rather than a default
  label string, which breaks if the column we are interested in is NOT label.
* Updated the data names to match new regex mask.
* Created a few more library functions and moved out functions as needed.
* Bugfix: Confusion matrix didn't print pred or true before.
* Bugfix: Selecting the right columns for svm, was a position. Now
  selects from the column given.

## 0.4.0.0 [2014-02-03] #
* Failed to update version numbers correctly on files.
* Added extra check to see if the column we select from the file
  doesn't exist.
* Added extra comments and broke powerAnalyze.r into two files for
  easier reading.
* For the working directory, we move back to the default once we process
  the data.
* For the model, the data is split by a percentage now.

# 0.3.0.0 [2014-01-30] #
* Base data added.
* SVM working and printing confusion matrix.
* Bugfix: Main now creates a data.frame and not matrix.
* SVM module working.
* Simplified matrix creation call.
* Added label to process vector.
* Used closure to remove global counter.
* Cleaned up function names.
* BUgfix: Extra information in trace name.
* Bugfix: Removing extra print for extra table.

# 0.2.0.0 [2014-01-28] #
* List is now an acceptable data format for the SVM.
* Reading multiple data and returning a labeled list.
* Organized folder hierarchy.
* Added outline of SVM function.
* Summary function implemented in chain.
* Tested initial r script.
* Created make script to automate running r.

# 0.1.0.0 [2014-01-24] #
* Small support functions created for project.
* Created small reference page.
* Function now cuts of first and last 20 points.
* References left in file.
* Initial tutorial files created.
* Repo initially created with README and gitignore.

Commit message:

Added quick start guide for repo.

README.md, after:

# Power Analyze #

We analyze the power traces (in CSV) of systems and run it through
an SVM, e1071. Our goal is to get the SVM to correctly identify as many
traces as possible given the mean of the trace.

Created by David Tran (unsignedzero)

# Quick Start #

1. Remove the bad data (filenames start with QQ\_)
2. Load your own data [MUST end in .csv extension]
3. Type make (or make fft) for 5-fold test.
4. Grab output and Rplots.pdf file.

# TO DO #

# Notes #

* : has greater precedence than - so [20:40-20] = [(20:40)-20]

# Questions #

* sapply seems to name your vectors for you?

# Version/Changelog #

* Added quick start guide for repo.
* Optimized leave-one-out (LOO) parameters to get the best results.

## 0.9.0.0 [2014-02-26] #
* Bugfix: Typos fixed with one of the front files.
* Leave one out, as known as n-folds, where n is the size of the training set,
  is implemented. Summary output printed too.
* Separated report and poster content.
* Added background and more to objective.
* Updated .gitignore to ignore the man directory, generated from make gen-doc.
* Updated report for additional content used in poster.
* Bugfix: NaNs in output affecting averages.
* Report in a final state.
* Slowly updating the report and poster.
* Added more sections to report.
* Bugfix: Tests working now.
* Added comments of main parts of powerAnalyze.
* Bugfix: Graphics dep issues erroring in DESCRIPTION fixed.
* Report updated.
* Bugfix: powerAnalyze.r links to old file locations, pre-R package.
* Converted date to be ISO format.
* Updated README to reflect new tag.
* Changed test to tests
* Adding NAMESPACE file.

## 0.8.0.0 [2014-02-18] #
* Slowly converting repo files to be like an R package.
* Bugfix: lib calls assume the library is at a fixed location which isn't true.
* Roxygen2 setup working.
* Testing generation of docs using roxygen2.
* Report updated to include current experiment log.
* SVM now prints average values of recall and precision.
* Updated library to have a dot product function.
* Not tested in roxygen but merging for updated comments and fixes.
* Fixed typo in test with list v vector comparison.
* Documentation of powerAnalyze finished.
* Documentation of svm finished.
* Documentation for first two functions of svm created.
* Documentation of library created. Testing with doxygen2 now.
* Updated REPORT.md to reflect new changes made since first write.
* Updated library.r comments.
* Heatmap output generated from svm file.

## 0.7.0.0 [2014-02-16] #
* Tuned SVM for better results.
* The three 'main' r files that run the library are moved into front/
* Moved sort call from svmMain to svmFormatData to make it easier for
  external calls.
* libCall suppresses warnings to make the check work.
* Unit tested completed for svm and thus the core parts of this code base.
* Updated to do for test branch. Merging with development.
* Elements from the list output of svmFormatData can be accessed by name.
* Unit test checks if dataset exists before starting.
* Added object.check to check if an object(variable) is assigned.
* Created unit tests for powerAnalyze.r
* Created unit testing for library file.
* Created simple test harness for code base with one test. Run with make
  test-repo.
* New functions added to install a library if its not installed and then
  load it.
* Bugfix: Body removed the first (n-1) elements, not n.
* Sort function created for data frames in library.
* Code base can now take in a processed and labeled csv and run svm on it.

## 0.6.0.0 [2014-02-11] #
* Merging FFT into Development Branch.
* Tested Re, Im and mag to see which one has the best results.
* FFT and not-FFT (normal) versions can be executed separately.
* FFT initial base working.
* Adding space around = if not a keyword assign.
* Bugfix: Precision and recall corrected.
* Bugfix: Missing comma in printf.
* Report first draft created.
* Bugfix: Mistaking precision for call and vice-versa.
* Added more debugging and renamed a variable.
* Bugfix: Input data frame to SVM needs to be sorted.
* Bugfix: calib is labeled B and not C.
* No need for pipes with R.
* Added more base cases. Accuracy increased.

## 0.5.0.0 [2014-02-04] #
* SVM Module now spits out the parameters of interest from the confusion
  matrix.
* Error messages will display the function name as well for debugging purposes.
* Created simplified SVM constructor function.
* Renamed for variables for consistency.
* Using hex for the table.
* body returns the empty container rather than just NULL.
* Pulled SVM tuner coder into a function.
* Fixed some bad comments.
* Bugfix: SVM now uses the column passed in as, rather than a default
  label string, which breaks if the column we are interested in is NOT label.
* Updated the data names to match new regex mask.
* Created a few more library functions and moved out functions as needed.
* Bugfix: Confusion matrix didn't print pred or true before.
* Bugfix: Selecting the right columns for svm, was a position. Now
  selects from the column given.

## 0.4.0.0 [2014-02-03] #
* Failed to update version numbers correctly on files.
* Added extra check to see if the column we select from the file
  doesn't exist.
* Added extra comments and broke powerAnalyze.r into two files for
  easier reading.
* For the working directory, we move back to the default once we process
  the data.
* For the model, the data is split by a percentage now.

# 0.3.0.0 [2014-01-30] #
* Base data added.
* SVM working and printing confusion matrix.
* Bugfix: Main now creates a data.frame and not matrix.
* SVM module working.
* Simplified matrix creation call.
* Added label to process vector.
* Used closure to remove global counter.
* Cleaned up function names.
* BUgfix: Extra information in trace name.
* Bugfix: Removing extra print for extra table.

# 0.2.0.0 [2014-01-28] #
* List is now an acceptable data format for the SVM.
* Reading multiple data and returning a labeled list.
* Organized folder hierarchy.
* Added outline of SVM function.
* Summary function implemented in chain.
* Tested initial r script.
* Created make script to automate running r.

# 0.1.0.0 [2014-01-24] #
* Small support functions created for project.
* Created small reference page.
* Function now cuts of first and last 20 points.
* References left in file.
* Initial tutorial files created.
* Repo initially created with README and gitignore.
